## [10.0.0] - 2022-06-2

### Breaking change

-   https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node/issues/220
    -   Adds `{status: "GENERAL_ERROR", message: string}` as a possible output to all the APIs.
    -   Changes `FIELD_ERROR` output status in third party recipe API to be `GENERAL_ERROR`.
    -   Replaced `FIELD_ERROR` status type in third party signinup API with `GENERAL_ERROR`.
    -   Removed `FIELD_ERROR` status type from third party signinup recipe function.
-   If sms or email sending failed in passwordless recipe APIs, we now throw a regular JS error from the API as opposed to returning a `GENERAL_ERROR` to the client.
-   If there is an error whilst getting the profile info about a user from a third party provider (in /signinup POST API), then we throw a regular JS error instead of returning a `GENERAL_ERROR` to the client.
-   Changes SuperTokensSMS service to take an API key directly as opposed to take an object that takes an API key
-   Passes only base request and base response objects to session recipe implementation functions. Normalisation of raw res and raw response is now done in the session's index.ts file
-   Removes support for faunadb session recipe modifier.
-   Removes support for FDI < 1.14

### Changes

-   Fixes Cookie sameSite config validation.
-   Fixes a few typos
-   Changes `getEmailForUserIdForEmailVerification` function inside thirdpartypasswordless to take into account passwordless emails and return an empty string in case a passwordless email doesn't exist. This helps situations where the dev wants to customise the email verification functions in the thirdpartypasswordless recipe.

### Fixes

-   Fixes email undefined error when resending the passwordless login email.
