## [7.0.0] - 2021-07-31

### Added

-   Multiple framework support. Currently supporting express, koa, hapi, fastify, awsLambda and loopback
-   BaseRequest and BaseResponse interface added which will be used inside recipe instead of previously used express.Request and express.Response
-   `framework` config option. Default value is `express`.
-   basic tests for all frameworks.

### Changed

-   Following functions are changed in default SuperTokens class (supertokens.ts):
    -   middleware: instead of taking no option and returning an express middleware, it now takes 2 parameters: BaseRequest and BaseResponse and returns a boolean. If response was send by the middleware, it returns true, else false
    -   handleAPI: no longer take `next` parameter. Also the request and response parameter will be of type BaseRequest and BaseResponse.
    -   errorHandler: instead of taking no option and returning an express error middleware, it now takes 3 parameters: error object, BaseRequest and BaseResponse
-   Cookie and Header handling will part be delegated to specific framework.
-   Request and Response parameters passwed in functions `createNewSession`, `getSession` and `refreshSession` can by of any type and not `express.Request` and `express.Response`.
-   middleware, errorHandler should be imported from specific framework (i.e. `import {middleware, errorHandler} from "supertokens-node/framework/express"`). Also, errorHandler may not be there for few frameworksas it may not be required.
-   verifySession should be imported from specific framework, from session recipe (i.e. `import {verifySession} from "supertokens-node/recipe/session/framework/express"`).
-   `handleAPIRequest` in recipe modules will no longer take `next` parameter. Also the request and response parameter will be of type BaseRequest and BaseResponse.
-   `handleAPIRequest` in recipe modules will return boolean. If the response is sent from `handleAPIRequest`, the function will return true else it will return false.
-   `handleError` in recipe modules will no longer take `next` parameter. Also the request and response parameter will be of type BaseRequest and BaseResponse. If error is not handled by the function, it will rethrow the error.
-   All the API implementation functions should return a boolean. If response is sent, `true` will be returned else false.
-   `verifySession` which was defined in `middleware.ts` file is now removed.
-   Changed `UNKNOWN_USER_ID` to `UNKNOWN_USER_ID_ERROR` to make it more consistent with other status types: https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node/issues/166

### Deprecated

-   middleware, errorHandler imported directly from supertokens-node (i.e. `import {middleware, errorHandler} from "supertokens-node"`)
-   verifySession imported directly from session recipe (i.e. `import {verifySession} from "supertokens-node/recipe/session"`)

### Breaking changes

-   In `ThirdParty` recipe, for type `TypeProviderGetResponse`, the field `authorisationRedirect.params` will be of type `{ [key: string]: string | ((request: BaseRequest) => string) }`. Earlier, the request was of type express.Request.
-   For all the recipes' `APIOptions`, their will be no `next` parameter. Also the request and response parameter will be of type BaseRequest and BaseResponse.
-   Updated minimum Oauth scopes required for various thirdparty providers.
-   For thirdparty providers, if the scope array is passed by the user, the default scopes will not be used.
-   Changes to emailpassword, emailverification, thirdpartyemailpassword and thirdparty functions to not return errors implicitly: https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node/issues/167
-   The req and res objects in the error handlers config for session recipe are not of type express anymore, but are of type BaseResponse and BaseRequest

### Fixes

-   https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node/issues/156
